---
title: "Quick and Dirty Combinatronics for Statistical Field Theory Feynman Diagrams"
date: 2021-12-18
---

A topic that confounded me at every turn when I was studying statistical field theory was figuring out combinatronic factors on Feynmann diagrams, and indeed whilst studying, I don't think things really came together for me until about one week before my theoretical physics exam. Whilst incredibly niche, if you've ever been a beginner to this subject, you probably know what I'm talking about when I say methods for finding these factors are notoriously confusing. In this post, I hope to present a quick and dirty method for working out these combinatronic factors. But first, I should explain why they're necessary.

In statistical field theory, one formulates an expression for the partition function in terms of a functional integral. Such objects form the basis of many approaches in theoretical physics, and their formulation is reasoned by analogy to the Feynman propagation of quantum mechanics by applying a Wick rotation. So, this functional integral contains all the information one could ever desire about your theory. By calculating statistical averages using this approach (by analogy with normal statistical averages), one obtains many-point functions (the two are interchangeable). 

Possibly the most well known problem in physics is the **harmonic oscillator**. Indeed, the late Sidney Coleman once said that *"The career of a young theoretical physicist consists of treating the harmonic oscillator in ever-increasing levels of abstraction,"* which I would argue is a good first order approximation. However, the harmonic oscillator sees the most use as the basis for other, more complicated theories, which is where our interest lies. What about a Hamiltonian with higher order terms in x? When we calculate these many-point functions, we hope to describe these theories. However, since they appear in our functional integral within the exponent, they are difficult to calculate, and so instead we look for a perturbative approximation.
